Issue/392 document config private python package repo (#6194)
inmanta/inmanta-core: docs/model_developers/modules.rst

The only exception to this rule is when using the ``inmanta export`` command. It exports a project and all its modules'
``inmanta_plugins`` packages to the orchestrator server. When this method is used, the orchestrator does not install any modules
from the Python package repository but instead contains all Python code as present in the local Python environment.

Configure the Inmanta server to install modules from a private python package repository
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

V2 modules can be installed from a Python package repository that requires authentication. This section explains how the Inmanta server should be configured to install v2 modules from such a Python package repository.

> Create a file named ``/var/lib/inmanta/.netrc`` in the orchestrator's file system.

Reviewer: I would reference the documentation of netrc here.

Add the following content to the file:

.. code-block:: text

  machine <hostname of the private repository>
  login <username>
  password <password>

> You will also need to specify the url of the repository in the ``project.yml`` file of your project. (See: :ref:`specify_location_pip`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will also need to specify the url of the repository in the ``project.yml`` file of your project (See: :ref:`specify_location_pip`).
```

> You will also need to specify the url of the repository to the inmanta server. This can be done in the ``project.yml`` file of your project. (See: :ref:`specify_location_pip`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You will also need to specify the url of the repository in the ``project.yml`` file of your project. (See: :ref:`specify_location_pip`)
```

> By following these steps, you will be able to install modules from a private Python package repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By following the previous steps, the Inmanta server will be able to install modules from a private Python package repository.
```

The only exception to this rule is when using the ``inmanta export`` command. It exports a project and all its modules'
``inmanta_plugins`` packages to the orchestrator server. When this method is used, the orchestrator does not install any modules
from the Python package repository but instead contains all Python code as present in the local Python environment.

Configure the Inmanta server to install modules from a private python package repository
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

V2 modules can be installed from a Python package repository that requires authentication. This section explains how the Inmanta server should be configured to install v2 modules from such a Python package repository.

Create a file named ``/var/lib/inmanta/.netrc`` in the orchestrator's file system.
Add the following content to the file:

.. code-block:: text

  machine <hostname of the private repository>
  login <username>
  password <password>

> for more information see the  doc about`pip authentication <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/topics/authentication/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information see the doc about`pip authentication <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/topics/authentication/>`_.
```

The only exception to this rule is when using the ``inmanta export`` command. It exports a project and all its modules'
``inmanta_plugins`` packages to the orchestrator server. When this method is used, the orchestrator does not install any modules
from the Python package repository but instead contains all Python code as present in the local Python environment.

Configure a project to install modules from a private python package repository
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this section could use 2 sub-sections: 
1. The one you already described with `use_config_file` to True
2. Another one with the pip -> index_urls ([ticket](https://github.com/inmanta/inmanta-core/issues/5993) adding this for reference)
The option is used like this in the `project.yml`:
```yml
pip:
    index_urls:
        - <url of the private repository>
```
I don't know how this second section sits with the .netrc file though (i.e. maybe this is a common part to both sub-sections)

Author: what happens when `use_config_file` is true and a `index_urls` is provided?

Reviewer 2: Both are used: see [here](https://github.com/inmanta/inmanta-core/blob/c79cc1e1376a13367fa2a3c1949cd4b864ea7fdd/src/inmanta/env.py#L360) and the indexes specified by index_urls will be passed to pip as `--extra-index-url`'s

Modules v2 are Python packages that can be installed from private Python package repositories, which may require authentication. This section explains the steps to install such modules.

> Create a file named ``.netrc`` in the orchestrator's file system, specifically in the "inmanta" directory. 

Reviewer 3: We need to be more specific about the directory where this file needs to be created. There are many "inmanta" directories on the orchestrator.
```suggestion
Create a file named ``/var/lib/inmanta/.netrc`` in the orchestrator's file system. 
```

Add the following content to the file:

.. code-block:: text

  machine <url of the private repository>

>   login token

Reviewer 2: Why not ?
```suggestion
  login <login>
```

Author: because that's how guillaume described it here: https://app.zenhub.com/workspaces/core-5a7c152b04a1652024289b7b/issues/gh/inmanta/inmanta-service-orchestrator/392 :p 
I haven't tested it yet

Author: it has been tested and token is indeed correct

Reviewer 3: `token` is the username that is used by Cloudsmith when you use an entitlement token. I don't think we should document the procedure for Cloudsmith here. Customers probably want to connect to their own internal Python package repository that requires authentication, so I would keep it generic.
```suggestion
  login <username>
```

  password <the token to access the private repository>

In the ``project.yml`` file of your project, ensure that the ``use_config_file`` option under the ``pip`` section is set to ``True``.

Create a file named ``pip.conf`` and add the following content to it:

.. code-block:: text

  [global]
  timeout = 60
  index-url = <url of the repository >

> Set the ``PIP_CONFIG_FILE`` environment variable to the path of the ``pip.conf`` file. You can do this by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: I am not sure whether we want to create a new pip config file here and set the environment variable or whether it would be better to change the global pip config file. I guess the latter is better, but I am not sure.

Author: I could also speak about booth options as they both work?

Reviewer 3: That's a possibility. Regarding the approach with the environment variable: I would mention the procedure to make sure that the environment variable is automatically set when a bash shell is opened. Having to run the export command every time a user logs into the orchestrator is not a very practical solution.

Author: but this part should be removed completely right? or do I misunderstand [your other comment](https://github.com/inmanta/inmanta-core/pull/6194#discussion_r1245274243)?

Reviewer 3: I don't really see how the referenced comment is linked to this. If we use the global pip config instead of a custom config file, this can indeed be removed.

.. code-block:: bash

>   $ export PIP_CONFIG_FILE=<path/to/pip.conf>

Reviewer 3: I think this procedure should describe how the orchestrator should be configured so that compiles started by the server can access the private python package repository. Setting the environment variable in a bash shell will only work for compiles started using the CLI tool.

Author: I don't think I know what actions should be taken on the orchestrator. I expect if we use the global pip config file nothing needs to be done?

Reviewer 3: True. If we use the global config, we don't need to environment variable. Otherwise, we needs to set the environment variable in the `/etc/sysconfig/inmanta-server` file (See: https://docs.inmanta.com/inmanta-service-orchestrator-dev/6/administrators/credentials.html)

Run the following command to install the modules:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ inmanta project install

> By following these steps, you will be able to configure your project to install modules from a private Python package repository.

Reviewer 3: The compiles service will execute these, so no need to mention them here. Unless we want to have a separate section for compiles on the CLI, but I am not sure whether we need that.

Author: I'll remove that part

The only exception to this rule is when using the ``inmanta export`` command. It exports a project and all its modules'
``inmanta_plugins`` packages to the orchestrator server. When this method is used, the orchestrator does not install any modules
from the Python package repository but instead contains all Python code as present in the local Python environment.

> Configure a project to install modules from a private python package repository

Reviewer 3: We don't really configure the project here. The configuration of the project is independent from whether or not authentication is required on the remote Python package repository. It's the configuration of the server that has to be updated.
```suggestion
Configure the Inmanta server to install modules from a private python package repository
```

> Configure a project to install modules from a private python package repository
> --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure a project to install modules from a private python package repository
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

V2 modules are Python packages that can be installed from private Python package repositories, which may require authentication.This section explains the steps to install such modules.

Create a file named ``/var/lib/inmanta/.netrc`` in the orchestrator's file system.
Add the following content to the file:

.. code-block:: text

>   machine <url of the private repository>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  machine <hostname of the private repository>
```

  login token

>   password <the token to access the private repository>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  password <password>
```

Next choose one of the following two options to specify to the inmanta server where to get the modules:

> 1. Use the pip config file

Reviewer 3: Now that I think about it, the two section mentioned below describe the difference between 1) using a index URL defined in the global pip config and 2) using a index URL defined in the project.yml file. This is completely unrelated to whether or not the Python package repository requires authentication. I see that it's interesting to mention this information somewhere in the documentation, but I don't think it should be part of this section.

Author: I changed the location but i'm still not sure it is the best place. what do you think?

> 1. Use the pip config file
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the pip config file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

In the ``project.yml`` (see: :ref:`project_yml`) file of your project, ensure that the ``use_config_file`` option under the ``pip`` section is set to ``True``.

.. code-block:: text

    pip:
        use_config_file: True

> Then add the following content the global pip config file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then add the following content to the global pip config file:
```

.. code-block:: text

  [global]
  timeout = 60
  index-url = <url of the repository >

.. note::

    You can also create a new pip config file ``pip.conf``, add the content there and then set the ``PIP_CONFIG_FILE`` environment variable in the inmanta server to the path of the newly created ``pip.conf`` file (See: :ref:`env_vars`).

> 2. Set the index_urls in the project
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Set the index_urls in the project
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```
